---
layout: post
title: SOAP interface for Automation Manager (RES)
category: tools
tags: 
- Python
- RES Automation Manager
- SOAP
---
According to the [documentation](https://support.ressoftware.com/automationmanageradminguide2012/25032.htm  ) you can enable the WebAPI on any dispatcher running the Dispatcher+ Service by simply adding a registry value. This exposes a REST and SOAP interface to some basic interaction with the AM environment.

>[HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\RES\AutomationManager\Dispatcher]
>"WebAPI"="yes"

This article focuses on the SOAP interface and how to address it from a non-SOAP-speaking entity. E.g. say you want to check a job status or schedule a specific job but the software you want to initiate these actions does not know how to form those fresh foamy xml envelopes. Or perhaps you just want to fiddle around with the SOAP interface but find something like [SOAPUI](http://www.soapui.org/) a bit too complex or cumbersome.

For this reason I have created SOAPyRES, a simple wrapper for the interface exposed by automation manager. At the time of writing it is a rather quick and dirty all in one script, written in Python. I would like to develop it further into a more feature complete wrapper class module and an interactive command line app. Preferably compile the whole thing into native executables as well in some way or another.

Right now it has options to list Modules, Projects and Runbooks, as well as Agents and Teams and do a search for Agents/Teams. You can also list various types of jobs, and schedule a job based on the Module GUID and Agent GUID.

{% highlight bash %}
$ python SOAPyRES.py help
RES Automation Manager WEB API tool
 Syntax :
 SOAPyRES.py FUNCTION [args]
Where FUNCTION can be:
- List
- Find
- Schedule
- ShowAPI
- Help
{% endhighlight %}

You can find the latest source code for SOAPyRES on [GitHub](http://mvdwoord.github.io/SOAPyRES/).

Please note this is one of the first things I’ve ever written in Python… as you can probably see.